>> Sarah Drasner: Animating text and
relative color values.
There's this thing called
Split Text that GreenSock offers.
One cool thing is that it's not
even dependent on TweenMax.
So you could theoretically use Split Text,
that plugin, without GreenSock.
You could just use it with CSS.
You could even use it with other
animation libraries if you wanted to.
What it does is it splits
the text apart and adds.
It kind of wraps like a span and
a div, the span or
a div, depending on which one you want,
around each one.
Now you might say to yourself,
well, I could do that with like split join
and make that programmatically myself.
But, one thing that it does well is
that it honors natural line breaks.
And that's something that is harder to do
because if you do the split join thing by
yourself what will happen is that all
characters the will kind of clomp together
in one big group.
So this and some of the kind of other
libraries that do this out there
don't do a good job of this part.
So that's the part that
actually is really cool.
There's a option to create
auto incrementing classes,
you can have it character 1,
character 2, character 3.
I wouldn't suggest adding that unless
you actually need it, unless you need to
target something in particular
because it really beefs up the dam.
You're just adding tons of stuff.
Into the DOM if you're not using it.
>> Sarah Drasner: So here's how it looks.
We're gonna say foo or
dancing tango monkey pants or
whatever you wanna call it.
And we're gonna make a new
split text instance.
We go grab the thing.
We say type words or type lines or
type cars for character.
And then this is that optional
parameter to create classes.
And whatever the class names is.
>> Sarah Drasner: So you can do stuff
like this, which you should never do.
Where you're animating a gradient and all
these characters, and lines, and words.
I'm breaking them all apart and
using them all separately.
>> Sarah Drasner: Don't do this.
That's way too much stuff for the DOM,
especially animating gradients that way.
Don't animate gradients that way,
that's not very performant.
Here's a better way of animating
gradients, you can create a mask.
You can create two different panels,
make a mask of one, and
then move it with transforms, and that's
way more performant and will work better.
Than the way that I did in that pen.
That was just a fun weekend
exercise to throw things around.
You can set all those transform
perspective, keep it 3D and
all that stuff.
You can do that to text.
So you can totally set all
of that stuff to text.
That's how I was throwing it.
Into your face and
out of your face and stuff.
I could have just, if I took that away,
that stuff would have broken apart but
it wouldn't have gotten huge and
crazy and flipping all over the place.
So first I define the types
of split text you need.
Don't do all of these things.
But you get words or characters and
then I'm gonna store them.
I have this helper function I use all
the time, which I call "Totes Rando", and
I just like to find a max and min of two
different values so I just say totesRando,
start here, go here.
I can always tell that someone is
using my resources when I see this
function in their code.
I can do a totesRando search on CodePen,
and find this function,
it's a really nice helper function.
And we can even randomize
that position parameter too.
So I can pass in Math.random and
concatenate that with the time.
Since that's a string,
can do all sorts of stuff with it, right?
Like I can plot it, I can actually
increment it along with the for
loop if I wanted to.
So, there's all sorts of stuff.
Since we're in JavaScript,
GreenSock's kind of beautifully dumb.
It just allows you to pass in numbers and
do whatever to it.
So it offers that kind of base thing and
then you can manipulate it.
Words can also illustrate a story.
So I made this pen to kind of show how you
would use words to illustrate a story.
This is
the thing
I had to add
the start
to.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Sarah Drasner: So you don't have
to be as heavy-handed as that.
[LAUGH] where it's like turn it around and
the word turns around.
But basically I'm showing you that to make
a point that you can have text move along
with something else to kinda complement
the motion that you're working with and
animate the text along
with to tell a story.
So that can be really nice.
And if you remember that Shel Silvertein,
the one before, we had it kind of
animating on to the screen with a kind
of a whimsy to kind of you know,
emulate that playfulness that we're trying
to get into the illustration as well.